Repl (#411)
Agoric/documentation: main/REPL/timerServices.md

In general, you should use the chain timer for contracts. But it's more efficient to 
use the local timer for objects that don't need consensus or consistency. 
For example, people might want it for testing. 

Both timer services let you:
- Get the start time of the current block. **tyg todo: Is this the case for local?**
- Schedule `wake()` calls.
- Remove scheduled `wake()` calls.
- Create a repeater for scheduling of events at regular intervals. 

With respect to using them, the only difference between the two timer
services is whether you preface their identical command set with
`localTimerService` or `chainTimerService`. However, note that
the local and chain versions of a method may use different time bases.

Before looking at the timer service methods, we need to cover two related objects,
the `TimerWaker` and the `TimerRepeater`. 

A `TimerWaker` has one method, `wake`, which takes a `Timestamp` argument and returns `void`. 
The passed `timestamp` is the time when the call to `wake()` is scheduled to occur.

A `TimerRepeater` has two methods, `schedule()` and `disable`:
- `schedule(waker)`
  - `waker` `{ `TimerWaker` }`

>   - Returns `void`             **tyg: The source ChrisH passed along was @property {(waker: TimerWaker) => void} Should it be a Timestamp instead of void?**

Reviewer: yes, `schedule(waker)` returns a Timestamp indicating the time the waker is next scheduled to be called.

# Timer Service Objects

`home` has two timer service objects: 
- `localTimerService` is from the local vat.
- `chainTimerService` is from the chain (if present). 

In general, you should use the chain timer for contracts. But it's more efficient to 
use the local timer for objects that don't need consensus or consistency. **tyg todo: Examples of such local prefered objects?**

Both timer services let you:

> - Get the start time of the current block. **tyg todo: Is this the case for local?**

Reviewer 2: > @michaelfig, what is the local timer reporting?

I don't know.  Apparently it's a problem with the local timer service that happened a long time ago.  Fixes would be appreciated, but it hasn't been a priority yet.

> - Get the start time of the current block. **tyg todo: Is this the case for local?**

Author: Suggestions for what I should put here for the (sorry) time being?

> - Get the start time of the current block. **tyg todo: Is this the case for local?**

Reviewer: Say that it's a monotonically increasing timestamp for each instance of the local chain.

- Schedule `wake()` calls.
- Remove scheduled `wake()` calls.
- Create a repeater for scheduling of events at regular intervals. 

With respect to using them, the only difference between the two timer
services is whether you preface their identical command set with
`localTimerService` or `chainTimerService` 

## `E(home.<chain or local>TimerService).getCurrentTimestamp()`
- Returns: If `chainTimerService`, the current block's start time **tyg todo: This
appears  to be the number of milliseconds since the
current block was created?** 
- Returns: If `localTimerService(), **tyg todo:
unclear what it's the start time of?** start time in milliseconds.
```js
command[1] E(home.chainTimerService).getCurrentTimestamp()
history[1] 1608523721
command[2] E(home.localTimerService).getCurrentTimestamp()
history[2] 1340435997
```

## `E(home.<chain or local>TimerService.(setWakeup(baseTime, handler)`
- `baseTime` `{ integer }` 
- `handler` `{ Handler }`
- Returns: `{ Integer }` 

Calls the specified handler the specified number of seconds after executing this call.

Returns the time at which the call is scheduled to happen. **tyg todo: In what format?**

```js

> const handler = harden({wake(now) { console.log(`woke up ${now}`); }});

Reviewer: Apparently `const` is broken now. And you're halfway between `function` and `lambda` syntax. I suggest `lambda`.

```suggestion
handler = harden({ wake: now => { console.log(`woke up ${now}`); }})
```

const willWakeAt = E(home.localTimerService).setWakeup(60, handler);
```
**tyg todo: Getting an "undefined" response on the `const handler...`
in the REPL?**

## `E(home.<chain or local>TimerService).removeWakeup(handler)`
- `handler` `{ Handler }`
- Returns: `{ Array[Integer] }`

Remove the specified handler from all scheduled wakeups, whether
created by `setWakeup()` or `repeater.schedule()`, effectively

> canceling the wakeups using that handler. **tyg todo: Is this last correct?**

Reviewer: yes.

Returns a list of `Integer` times when the cancelled wakeup calls were scheduled to happen.

```js
const timeList = E(home.chainTimerService.removeWakeup(handler);
```
  
## `E(home.<chain or local>TimerService).createRepeater(delaySecs, interval)`
- `delaySecs`: `{ Integer }`
- `interval`: `{ Integer }`

> - Returns: `{ Repeater }` 

Reviewer: We need a description of `Repeater`.

Reviewer: Here's the typescript:

```
/**
 * @typedef {Object} TimerWaker
 * @property {(timestamp: Timestamp) => void} wake The timestamp passed to
 * `wake()` is the time that the call was scheduled to occur.
 */

/**
 * @typedef {Object} TimerRepeater
 * @property {(waker: TimerWaker) => void} schedule Returns the time scheduled for
 * the first call to `E(waker).wake()`.  The waker will continue to be scheduled
 * every interval until the repeater is disabled.
 * @property {() => void} disable Disable this repeater, so `schedule(w)` can't
 * be called, and wakers already scheduled with this repeater won't be
 * rescheduled again after `E(waker).wake()` is next called on them.
 */
```

Repeater has two methods: `schedule(waker)` and `disable()`. schedule's waker is any object with a `wake()` method, as we used above.

# Timer Service Objects

`home` has two timer service objects: 
- `localTimerService` is from the local vat.
- `chainTimerService` is from the chain (if present). 

In general, you should use the chain timer for contracts. But it's more efficient to 
use the local timer for objects that don't need consensus or consistency. 
For example, people might want it for testing. 

Both timer services let you:
- Get the start time of the current block. **tyg todo: Is this the case for local?**
- Schedule `wake()` calls.
- Remove scheduled `wake()` calls.
- Create a repeater for scheduling of events at regular intervals. 

With respect to using them, the only difference between the two timer
services is whether you preface their identical command set with
`localTimerService` or `chainTimerService`. However, note that
the local and chain versions of a method may use different time bases.

## `E(home.<chain or local>TimerService).getCurrentTimestamp()`
- Returns: the current block's start time according to the local or chain clock

The current block might be executed more than once in case of restart or replay.
But each time it will start from the same state and receive the same inputs. 

> Since this is repeatable computation, the same computation can be run in various l
> ocations to cross-verify. So each time, the `currentTimeStamp` will be the same, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since this is repeatable computation, the same computation can be run in various 
locations to cross-verify. So each time, the `currentTimeStamp` will be the same, 
```

even if we're running the computation a minute or a month later. It's always the 
current block's start time, expressed as a Unix epoch time in milliseconds or similar.
```js
command[1] E(home.chainTimerService).getCurrentTimestamp()
history[1] 1608523721
command[2] E(home.localTimerService).getCurrentTimestamp()
history[2] 1340435997
```

## `E(home.<chain or local>TimerService.(setWakeup(baseTime, handler)`
- `baseTime` `{ integer }` 
- `handler` `{ Handler }`
- Returns: `{ Integer }` 

Calls the specified handler the specified number of seconds after executing this call.

Returns the time, in the same format as the parameter,
at which the call is scheduled to happen. 

```js
command[3] handler = harden({ wake: now => { console.log(`woke up ${now}`); }})
history[3] {"wake":[Function wake]}
command[4] willWakeAt =  E(home.localTimerService).setWakeup(3, handler)

> history[4] sending for eval

Reviewer: `sending for eval` is an error. Let's see if we can get a better answer before publishing this. I got 

```
command[13] willWakeAt =  E(home.localTimerService).setWakeup(3, handler)
history[13] 1341491188
```
<b>        woke up 1341491188<b>

```

## `E(home.<chain or local>TimerService).removeWakeup(handler)`
- `handler` `{ Handler }`
- Returns: `{ Array[Integer] }`

Remove the specified handler from all scheduled wakeups, whether
created by `setWakeup()` or `repeater.schedule()`, effectively
canceling the wakeups using that handler.

Returns a list of `Integer` times when the cancelled wakeup calls were scheduled to happen.

```js
command[5] timeList = E(home.localTimerService.removeWakeup(handler)

> history[5] sending for eval

Reviewer: @michaelfig, I get `working on eval(timeList = E(home.localTimerService.removeWakeup(history[15]))`. What does this error message indicate?

Author: I'm now getting:

working on eval(timeList = E(home.localTimerService.removeWakeup(handler))

```
  
## `E(home.<chain or local>TimerService).createRepeater(delaySecs, interval)`
- `delaySecs`: `{ Integer }`
- `interval`: `{ Integer }`
- Returns: `{ Repeater }` 

Creates and returns a `Repeater` object. It schedules `wake()` calls repeatedly at 
times that are a multiple of the specified interval following `baseTime`. `interval`
is the delay between times when `wake()` is called. Since block times are coarse-grained,
the actual call may occur later, but this won't change when the
next event will be called. 
```js
command[6] E(home.localTimerService).createRepeater(5,10)

> history[6] sending for eval

Reviewer: I got `[Alleged: presence o-135]{}`. Can you rerun this, and show a use of the repeater?
